### Artificial Neural Network–Based Slip-Trip Classifier Using Smart Sensor for Construction Workplace [^1]
- 2018
- A test was performed by collecting the three-axis acceleration streams generated by workers wearing a smart phone running the classifier as they walked around a simulated construction jobsite.

### Wearable Insole Pressure Sensors for Automated Detection and Classification of Slip-Trip-Loss of Balance Events in Construction Workers [^2] 
- 2018
- Three volunteers participated in a laboratory controlled simulated experiment that examined different types of STL events, while the corresponding foot plantar pressure data were collected from wearable insole pressure sensors.
- Diverse features (e.g., time- and frequency-domains, and spatial-temporal features) were extracted from the foot plantar pressure distribution data, which was used to associate different pressure patterns with each type of STL event.
- Four machine learning classifiers (*i.e., artificial neural network (ANN), decision tree (DT), K-nearest neighbor (KNN), and support vector machine (SVM)*) were evaluated to select the best classifier

###  Automated detection and classification of construction workers' loss of balance events using wearable insole pressure sensors [^3]
 - 2018
 - Laboratory simulated loss of balance events are conducted.
 - The proposed approach uses wearable insole pressure sensors.
- Supervised machine learning algorithms were used to learn foot plantar pressure data.
- Random forest classifier had the best classification performance.
- This approach can serve as an automated fall risk monitoring tool.

### Automated Loss-of-Balance Event Identification in Older Adults at Risk of Falls during Real-World Walking Using Wearable Inertial Measurement Units [^4] 
- 2021
- Detection using IMU
- In a preliminary study, eight community-dwelling older adults with a history of falls were asked to perform everyday tasks in the real world while donning a set of three inertial measurement sensors (IMUs) and report LOB (Loss Of Balance) events via a voice-recording device.
- **No Follow Up**

### Fall risk assessment of construction workers based on biomechanical gait stability parameters using wearable insole pressure system [^5]
- Laboratory simulated loss of balance events are conducted.
- Wearable insole pressure system was used for data collection.
- Four main spatial foot regions are detected from foot plantar pressure patterns.
- Significant changes in biomechanical gait stability parameters are reported.
- **This study has the same methodology we are using to classify cop but only uses pressure**
- **No Neural Network**

### Elderly Fall Detection Systems: A Literature Survey [^6]
- 2022
- The sensors and algorithms proposed during the past 6 years are very different in comparison to the research before 2014. Accelerometers are still the most popular sensors in wearable devices, while Kinect took the place of the RGB camera and became the most popular visual sensor. The combination of Kinect and accelerometer is turning out to be the most sought after. 
- There is not yet a benchmark data set on which fall detection systems can be evaluated and compared. This creates a hurdle in advancing the field. Although there has been an attempt to use middle-age subjects to simulate falls (Kangas et al., 2008), there are still differences in behavior between the elderly and middle-aged subjects. 
- Sensor fusion seems to be the way forward. It provides more robust solutions in fall detection systems but come with higher computational costs when compared to those that rely on individual sensors. The challenge is therefore to mitigate the computational costs. 
- Existing studies focus mainly on the data analytics aspect and do not give too much attention to IoT platforms in order to build full and stable systems.
- **Spawned more IMU research**





[^1]: https://ascelibrary.org/doi/10.1061/%28ASCE%29CO.1943-7862.0001049
[^2]: https://ascelibrary.org/doi/abs/10.1061/9780784481288.008
[^3]: https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/21/14/4661
[^4]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0926580518302929
[^5]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S147403461830301X
[^6]: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frobt.2020.00071/full